server-test-scripts/README.md, before:

# Kali MCP Server Test Scripts

This directory contains test scripts to verify that the Kali MCP server is working correctly.

## Available Test Scripts

### Python Test Script (Cross-platform)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.py`
- **Usage**: `python3 test_mcp_server.py`
- **Requirements**: Python 3.6+
- **Features**: 
  - Comprehensive test suite with colored output
  - Tests Docker availability, image existence, container startup, MCP server response, tool availability, and basic functionality
  - Generates detailed test reports

### PowerShell Test Script (Windows)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.ps1`
- **Usage**: `.\test_mcp_server.ps1`
- **Requirements**: PowerShell 5.1+ and Docker
- **Features**: 
  - Same test coverage as Python script
  - Optimized for Windows environments
  - Colored output for better readability

### Bash Test Script (Linux/macOS)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.sh`
- **Usage**: `bash test_mcp_server.sh` or `./test_mcp_server.sh` (after making executable)
- **Requirements**: Bash and Docker
- **Features**: 
  - Same test coverage as Python script
  - Optimized for Unix-like systems
  - Colored output for better readability

## Test Coverage

The test scripts verify:

1. **Docker Availability** - Checks if Docker is installed and accessible
2. **Docker Image Existence** - Verifies the `kali-mcp-server` image exists
3. **Container Can Start** - Tests that containers can be created and run
4. **MCP Server Response** - Verifies the MCP server responds to initialization requests
5. **Tools Availability** - Checks that key security tools (nmap, nikto, sqlmap, whatweb, gobuster, ffuf) are available
6. **Simple Command Execution** - Tests basic command execution within the container
7. **Nmap Basic Functionality** - Verifies nmap can run (version check)

## Prerequisites

Before running the tests:

1. **Docker must be installed and running**
   - Verify with: `docker --version`
   - Ensure Docker daemon is running

2. **Docker image must be built**
   - Build the image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
   - Or pull from registry if available

3. **Required permissions**
   - Docker must have permissions to create containers
   - On Linux, you may need to be in the `docker` group or use `sudo`

## Running the Tests

### Quick Start

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
cd server-test-scripts
.\test_mcp_server.ps1
```

**Linux/macOS (Bash):**
```bash
cd server-test-scripts
chmod +x test_mcp_server.sh
./test_mcp_server.sh
```

**Cross-platform (Python):**
```bash
cd server-test-scripts
python3 test_mcp_server.py
```

### Expected Output

The tests will display:
- ✓ Green checkmarks for passing tests
- ✗ Red X marks for failing tests
- ⚠ Yellow warnings for non-critical issues
- ℹ Blue info messages for additional context

At the end, a summary report shows:
- Total number of tests
- Number of passed/failed tests
- Detailed results for each test

## Troubleshooting

### Docker Not Found
- **Error**: "Docker is not available"
- **Solution**: Install Docker Desktop or Docker Engine
- **Verify**: Run `docker --version`

### Image Not Found
- **Error**: "Docker image 'kali-mcp-server' not found"
- **Solution**: Build the image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
- **Location**: Run from the project root directory

### Container Startup Fails
- **Error**: "Container failed to start"
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Insufficient system resources (memory/CPU)
  - Docker daemon not running
  - Image corruption
- **Solution**: 
  - Check Docker daemon: `docker ps`
  - Rebuild image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
  - Check system resources

### Permission Denied
- **Error**: "Permission denied" (Linux)
- **Solution**: 
  - Add user to docker group: `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER`
  - Log out and back in
  - Or use `sudo` (not recommended)

### Tools Not Available
- **Error**: "Tool X is not available"
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Tool not installed in image
  - Image build incomplete
- **Solution**: 
  - Rebuild the Docker image
  - Check Dockerfile for tool installation

## Test Execution Time

- **Quick tests**: ~2-5 minutes
- **Full test suite**: ~5-10 minutes

Tests that require container startup may take longer on first run due to image pulling/initialization.

## Continuous Integration

These test scripts can be integrated into CI/CD pipelines:

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions
- name: Test MCP Server
  run: |
    cd server-test-scripts
    python3 test_mcp_server.py
```

## Contributing

When adding new tests:
1. Follow the existing test structure
2. Use the provided helper functions for output
3. Add appropriate error handling
4. Update this README with new test descriptions

## Notes

- Tests use temporary containers that are automatically cleaned up
- Tests do not require network access (except for MCP protocol tests)
- Some tests may take longer on resource-constrained systems
- All tests are designed to be safe and non-destructive

Commit message:

Implement smart container detection in test scripts to utilize existing running containers for tests. Update README.md to reflect changes in container usage and enhance clarity on testing procedures. Modify test scripts in PowerShell, Python, and Shell to check for running containers before creating new ones, improving efficiency and integration with Cursor IDE.

server-test-scripts/README.md, after:

# Kali MCP Server Test Scripts

This directory contains test scripts to verify that the Kali MCP server is working correctly.

## Available Test Scripts

### Python Test Script (Cross-platform)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.py`
- **Usage**: `python3 test_mcp_server.py`
- **Requirements**: Python 3.6+
- **Features**: 
  - Comprehensive test suite with colored output
  - Tests Docker availability, image existence, container startup, MCP server response, tool availability, and basic functionality
  - Generates detailed test reports

### PowerShell Test Script (Windows)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.ps1`
- **Usage**: `.\test_mcp_server.ps1`
- **Requirements**: PowerShell 5.1+ and Docker
- **Features**: 
  - Same test coverage as Python script
  - Optimized for Windows environments
  - Colored output for better readability

### Bash Test Script (Linux/macOS)
- **File**: `test_mcp_server.sh`
- **Usage**: `bash test_mcp_server.sh` or `./test_mcp_server.sh` (after making executable)
- **Requirements**: Bash and Docker
- **Features**: 
  - Same test coverage as Python script
  - Optimized for Unix-like systems
  - Colored output for better readability

## Test Coverage

The test scripts verify:

1. **Docker Availability** - Checks if Docker is installed and accessible
2. **Docker Image Existence** - Verifies the `kali-mcp-server` image exists
3. **Container Can Start** - Tests that containers can be created and run (or uses existing container if already running)
4. **MCP Server Response** - Verifies the MCP server responds to initialization requests
5. **Tools Availability** - Checks that key security tools (nmap, nikto, sqlmap, whatweb, gobuster, ffuf) are available
6. **Simple Command Execution** - Tests basic command execution within the container
7. **Nmap Basic Functionality** - Verifies nmap can run (version check)

### Smart Container Detection

The test scripts automatically detect if a container is already running (e.g., started by Cursor IDE when using the MCP server). When an existing container is found:

- Tests will use `docker exec` to run commands in the existing container
- No new containers will be created unnecessarily
- This allows testing the actual MCP server instance that Cursor is using

If no existing container is found, the scripts will create temporary test containers as needed.

## Prerequisites

Before running the tests:

1. **Docker must be installed and running**
   - Verify with: `docker --version`
   - Ensure Docker daemon is running

2. **Docker image must be built**
   - Build the image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
   - Or pull from registry if available

3. **Required permissions**
   - Docker must have permissions to create containers
   - On Linux, you may need to be in the `docker` group or use `sudo`

## Running the Tests

### Quick Start

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
cd server-test-scripts
.\test_mcp_server.ps1
```

**Linux/macOS (Bash):**
```bash
cd server-test-scripts
chmod +x test_mcp_server.sh
./test_mcp_server.sh
```

**Cross-platform (Python):**
```bash
cd server-test-scripts
python3 test_mcp_server.py
```

### Expected Output

The tests will display:
- ✓ Green checkmarks for passing tests
- ✗ Red X marks for failing tests
- ⚠ Yellow warnings for non-critical issues
- ℹ Blue info messages for additional context

At the end, a summary report shows:
- Total number of tests
- Number of passed/failed tests
- Detailed results for each test

## Troubleshooting

### Docker Not Found
- **Error**: "Docker is not available"
- **Solution**: Install Docker Desktop or Docker Engine
- **Verify**: Run `docker --version`

### Image Not Found
- **Error**: "Docker image 'kali-mcp-server' not found"
- **Solution**: Build the image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
- **Location**: Run from the project root directory

### Container Startup Fails
- **Error**: "Container failed to start"
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Insufficient system resources (memory/CPU)
  - Docker daemon not running
  - Image corruption
- **Solution**: 
  - Check Docker daemon: `docker ps`
  - Rebuild image: `docker build -t kali-mcp-server .`
  - Check system resources

### Permission Denied
- **Error**: "Permission denied" (Linux)
- **Solution**: 
  - Add user to docker group: `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER`
  - Log out and back in
  - Or use `sudo` (not recommended)

### Tools Not Available
- **Error**: "Tool X is not available"
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Tool not installed in image
  - Image build incomplete
- **Solution**: 
  - Rebuild the Docker image
  - Check Dockerfile for tool installation

## Test Execution Time

- **Quick tests**: ~2-5 minutes
- **Full test suite**: ~5-10 minutes

Tests that require container startup may take longer on first run due to image pulling/initialization.

## Continuous Integration

These test scripts can be integrated into CI/CD pipelines:

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions
- name: Test MCP Server
  run: |
    cd server-test-scripts
    python3 test_mcp_server.py
```

## Contributing

When adding new tests:
1. Follow the existing test structure
2. Use the provided helper functions for output
3. Add appropriate error handling
4. Update this README with new test descriptions

## Notes

- **Existing Container Detection**: Tests automatically detect and use containers already running (e.g., started by Cursor IDE)
- **Temporary Containers**: If no existing container is found, tests create temporary containers that are automatically cleaned up
- **Network Access**: Tests do not require network access (except for MCP protocol tests)
- **Resource Usage**: Some tests may take longer on resource-constrained systems
- **Safety**: All tests are designed to be safe and non-destructive
- **Cursor Integration**: When Cursor has started the MCP server container, tests will use that container instead of creating new ones
